The Relevance of Muon Deflections for Neutrino Telescopes

Large-scale neutrino telescopes are able to locate new point sources in the universe. 
These experiments rely on the detection of charged leptons produced in the interaction of neutrinos 
with other particles. The best angular resolution is better than 1 degree and is achieved by the reconstruction of muons, which 
is a measure of the accuracy with which the direction of incoming neutrinos can be determined. 
Since muons can traverse distances of several kilometers through media, the original muon direction 
can differ from the muon direction inside the detector due to deflections by stochastic interactions 
and multiple scattering.  

In this contribution, the impact of muon deflections on the angular resolution of muon reconstructions is estimated 
with the simulation tool PROPOSAL. Muons with various energies are propagated through different 
media over several distances. 
Data-Monte-Carlo comparisons as well as comparisons to the simulation tools MUSIC and Geant4 are performed. 
Finally, the impact of muon deflections on large scale neutrino telescopes is discussed.  





DPG abstract:

Study of high-energetic muon deflections

The analysis of incoming muon-neutrinos and muons relies on the reconstruction 
of the detected muons. In general, the energy and the direction of 
an incoming particle are estimated via likelihood methods. With new reconstruction algorithms 
and hardware optimizations, the direction of an incoming 
muon can be measured with an angular resolution lower than 1 degree. 

However, high-energetic muons are able to travel many kilometers 
through dense media like ice and water. In these media, the muons interact 
very frequently with energy losses of up to 90% of the muon energy 
and even larger energy losses are possible. In each interaction, there is 
a momentum transfer which leads to a small deflection of the initial muon 
direction. 

In this presentation, the lepton simulation framework PROPOSAL is used 
to estimate the accumulated muon deflection. Muons with different energies 
are propagated through ice and water over several distances. Data-Monte-Carlo 
comparisons as well as comparisons with the simulation tools MUSIC and Geant4 
are shown. Finally, the impact of muon deflections for large scale neutrino 
telescopes is discussed.