Author's comments

Referee 1:
1. 
    - Muon tomography mentioned only twice: We changed it to muography and added 
        a small discussion.
2.
    - Figure 5: We added a table with all simulation results. Now there can be 
        clearly seen, that the median deflection depends only on the final muon 
        energy and the initial muon energy is negligible. Also the median propagated 
        distances with a 99% interval are added and we mentioned, that muons with 
        a fixed final energy propagate various distances.
3.
    - Figure 5 represents no realistic scenario: This depends on the 
        situation. From the perspective of a neutrino telescope, the initial 
        muon energy and the propagation distance are unknown. The only known 
        value is the reconstructed muon energy at the detector entry. The result 
        of the paper indicates, that the muon deflection is (nearly) independent 
        of the initial muon energy. Hence the muon deflection depends only on the 
        final muon energy. In my comments I added a plot (E_i_10PeV_median.pdf) 
        that shows the median 
        deflection in dependence of the propagation distance and the 
        final muon energy. A mono energetic initial energy of 10 PeV is used and 
        the final energies are chosen as a simple muon flux of Gaisser 1990 times 
        E^3.7. The plot shows, that a longer propagation distance leads to 
        a slightly larger deflection. In general, the deflection is still dominated 
        by the final muon energy. 

        I added a similar plot to the comments (gaisserE37_median.pdf) which uses 
        the Gaisser muon flux times E^3.7 as the initial muon energies instead 
        of a fixed muon energy. The rest remains the same. This plot presents, 
        that the propagation distance is nearly negligible for the muon deflection. 
    
        In summary, the muon deflection depends primarily on the final muon energy.
        If the initial muon energy is known, then a larger propagation 
        distance leads to a larger deflection (see E_i_10PeV_median.pdf). But 
        my simulations are done in ice and can be used as an initial guess of 
        the muon deflection. If a user or an experiment wants to know the exactly 
        expected deflections then they should do their own simulations 
        with their exact density profiles that cover their detector.

    - Do the same simulations with Geant4 and compare the total results: The Goal
        of this paper is to estimate the muon deflections with the tool PROPOSAL 
        at energies higher than GeV. Furthermore, Geant4 is not optimized to do 
        simulations over large distances of kilometers. Hence, it is not 
        possible to do the exact same simulations with Geant4 in a certain 
        amount of time.
4.
    - Geant4: The intensive computing is removed.
5.
    - Section 4.1: A short description of the simulation is added.
6.
    - Figure 1, caption and text: A deflection due to an "interaction" in the 
        multiple scattering process is now defined as a summation of elastic 
        scatterings of one particle at another particle, called single scattering. 
        Thus, the muon is deflected by a single angle for each continuous loss, 
        analogous to a stochastic loss.
7.
    - Section 4.2: Grammar fixed.
8.
    - Figure 3: PROPOSAL underestimates the deflections for 0 < theta < 2 and 
        for 3 < theta < 6. Now the limits are correct.
9.
    - Figure 4: Yes, there are 2 PROPOSAL simulations. The tails
        of all distributions seem to be correlated, since the binning of the 
        data points is shifted to wider bins.
    - Figure 3 and 4: At 0.5 degree, data and simulated curves are all 
        changing their shape. As shown in the added data-MC ratios, Molière scattering 
        does not describe the data perfectly. Hence, the effect at 0,5° seems 
        to be an artifact which is not fully understood yet.

Referee 2:
Introduction:
    The link to Geant4 and the standard reference are stated. \textsc{Geant4} is 
    used now.
2. Overview of the Simulation Tool PROPOSAL 
    Typically used energy cuts are mentioned with a short description why these 
    are often used.
    Since the statement of the muon decay is semi-trivial, Ref. 16 (Soedingrekso) 
    is removed. 
    "Alameddine et al" is now cited as *unpublished* with a note.
3. Muon Deflection per Interaction 
    Now I use deg for 10^{} and ° for single numbers.
    I don't use [unit] because of the style guide in: https://www.bipm.org/documents/20126/41483022/SI-Brochure-9-EN.pdf, Section 5.4.
    The different scattering methods are now stated as: Multiple Scattering (MS) - Multiple Scattering Molière (MSM) - 
        Multiple Scattering Highland (MSH)
4.1 Comparison with MUSIC and Geant4 
    I moved [21] to introduction and I removed references at the beginning of this    
        subsection.
    - Detailed information in Table 2: 
        1) There are no standard deviations given in Ref. [21]
        2)  The mean values of the angles and the deflections are very similar, 
            which leads to the result, that all three simulations tools 
            have a similar output referred to the deflection angle 
            and the lateral displacement. Thus the results of PROPOSAL are 
            consistent with the results of MUSIC and Geant4. In general, I mean 
            the results of PROPOSAL are consistent with the mean values and 
            the distributions.
4.2 Data-MC Agreements and 4.3 Muon Deflection Impact on Angular Resolutions
    Data-MC ratio plots are added and useful for logarithmic plots, thank you!
    I also added a Geant4 simulation for the comparison with Akimenko et al.
    A statement is added in the discussion of Figure 5, that the presented data-MC 
        agreements are very different to the used energy of the user's case.
    - Figure 5: The energy range from 1 GeV to 10 PeV is chosen because this is the 
        energy range of the presented experiments. This follows from the energy range 
        stated for the angular resolutions. 
    - parameter b seems to be compatible with 0 -> There was a mistake! 
        Additionally, the fit in the figure used a higher precision on the 
        parameters. Now I mentioned 4 digits of the parameters and I changed 
        the fit in the plot, since the fit is slightly shifted with 3 digits per 
        parameter. Now the plot is created with exactly these parameters and not 
        with the parameters of the higher precision. 
    - For Eq. (2) and (3) it is mentioned explicitly, that these equations 
        are valid for muon energy from 1 GeV to 50 PeV.